date: 
Exception in extractArticlePublishedDate for https://cryptovest.com/news/former-secret-service-special-agent-hired-by-blockchain-to-head-security/

summary: 
 Sax is expected to apply his decades of physical and personal security insights to Blockchain. "George is a recognized security leader with decades of valuable experience protecting the most important people, infrastructure and systems in the United States. We are proud to welcome him to Blockchain and for him to lead our security efforts as we continue to make crypto safe and easy to use for everyone." "Blockchain is helping to build a fairer financial future by democratizing access to digital assets. I look forward to applying my experience at the U.S. Secret Service, the U.S. Department Treasury, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to the company's already robust security program and enable millions across the globe access to this new financial system with confidence."

full text: 
Former Secret Service Special Agent Hired By Blockchain to Head Security
Blockchain snags top dog Secret Service official to help it secure its wallets.
by News Desk , 20 hrs ago
Subscribe
Blockchain has landed perhaps one of the best people it could to help secure its wallet.
That person is a former deputy assistant director of the U.S. Secret Service.
He’s George Sax, and he will be the Global Head of Security for Blockchain, which maintains a non-custodial wallet that provides users autonomy and control over their crypto.
Let’s discuss.
Crème of the crop
Blockchain was enamored with Sax’s decades of experience managing complex security operations not only in the U.S., but also around the world.
For 25 years, Sax has held some kind of security position. During his tenure with the Secret Service, Sax worked within the Department of Homeland Security.
Most recently, he oversaw investigations where he led a global team of more than 2,000 people across 161 offices. He was responsible for combating cyber-related financial crimes and developing programs to protect the financial infrastructure in the U.S.
Helping Blockchain
In his new role with Blockchain, Sax is expected to draw on his experience to further develop the company’s security philosophy, focusing on operations, infrastructure, and product security, according to the blog post on his hiring.
Also, Sax is expected to apply his decades of physical and personal security insights to Blockchain. This includes all the years he spent providing executive protection of multiple U.S. presidents and their families as well visiting foreign heads of state.
Sax has also managed security at a number of high-risk events, including the 2016 U.S. Presidential Campaign and the 2017 U.S. Presidential Inauguration.
Peter Smith, CEO and co-founder of Blockchain had this to say about Sax’s hiring.
“George is a recognized security leader with decades of valuable experience protecting the most important people, infrastructure and systems in the United States. We are proud to welcome him to Blockchain and for him to lead our security efforts as we continue to make crypto safe and easy to use for everyone.”
Ready to roll
In a statement, Sax seems to recognize the importance of his role now that he’s working in the crypto world.
He said:
“Blockchain is helping to build a fairer financial future by democratizing access to digital assets. I look forward to applying my experience at the U.S. Secret Service, the U.S. Department Treasury, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to the company’s already robust security program and enable millions across the globe access to this new financial system with confidence.”
×
Stay up to date with market trends and exclusive crypto news!
Subscribe


url: 
https://cryptovest.com/news/former-secret-service-special-agent-hired-by-blockchain-to-head-security/