title: 
Blockchain Platform NAGA Partners Up with Hamburg SV | NewsBTC

date: 
Exception in extractArticlePublishedDate for https://www.newsbtc.com/2018/07/26/blockchain-platform-naga-partners-up-with-hamburg-sv/

summary: 
,"sm_api_message":"THE PAGE COULD NOT BE FOUND"}

full text: 
Blockchain Platform NAGA Partners Up with Hamburg SV
Guest Author | July 26, 2018 | 2:03 am
Blockchain Platform NAGA Partners Up with Hamburg SV
Guest Author | July 26, 2018 | 2:03 am
Combining Crypto and Sports
The worlds of blockchain and sports continue to integrate.
NAGA — an all-inclusive and well-established cryptocurrency ecosystem focusing on social trading, virtual assets and cryptocurrencies — has announced its support for HSV Fußball AG for the 2018/19 Bundesliga season.
NAGA is set to enjoy a comprehensive presence at the club’s Volksparkstadion and as an exclusive partner, NAGA’s blockchain ecosystem will be advertised around the perimeter of the stadium. Furthermore, NAGA will be integrated as a statistics and goalscoring partner on both the scoreboard and in other club media.
NAGA Executive Director Benjamin Bilski remarked on the partnership:
“We are a company with headquarters in Hamburg, but above all, we are globally oriented — just as cosmopolitan as Hamburg itself, and HSV with its international team. Our values and entrepreneurial attitudes are a perfect match, especially as HSV is open to new technologies, which is exactly what NAGA stands for. Because we are very familiar with statistics and technology, sophisticated and constantly new applications play a big role in our success.”
Likewise, Alexander Braune, Head of Business Development at NAGA, explained:
“Together we want to move towards new goals. With a complete restart, HSV is creating the basis for successfully completing the new season – via a strategic approach that we, as an innovative company, absolutely share in the ethos of. We are proud to be accompanying HSV on its journey to a successful future.”
On the other side of the deal, HSV Fußball AG is also pleased with the new arrangement.
Frank Wettstein, CFO of the sports club, stated his pleasure by saying:
“We are very pleased to have such an innovative partner as the NAGA Group at our side. Together we want to write a brand-new success story.”
Johannes Haupt, Senior Director of Team Hamburg SV at Lagardère Sports, also commented:
“We are delighted to have won over an innovative new partner from a dynamic and promising industry for HSV. We have developed a comprehensive package of services tailored to the company’s objectives, with a special focus on digital communication, enabling exciting projects along the path of our long-term cooperation. We are convinced that in the course of this partnership, both sides won’t only benefit from each other, but will also be able to learn from each other.”
Only the Beginning
NAGA’s high-profile partnership with Hamburg SV follows recent news that other sports teams would be venturing into the world of cryptocurrency.
Most notably, the Sacramento Kings announced recently that the organization is launching an initiative called MiningForGood to mine for Ethereum. The team will work with MiningStore.com to install the necessary hardware at their high tech arena — the Golden 1 Center.
Earlier this month, Major League Baseball announced that it would be launching its own range of digital collectibles on the Ethereum blockchain . MLB Crypto Baseball will be focused on trading one-of-a-kind digital items linked to specific moments in recent games.
Blockchain Platform NAGA Partners Up with Hamburg SV was last modified: July 26th, 2018 by Guest Author
loading...


url: 
https://www.newsbtc.com/2018/07/26/blockchain-platform-naga-partners-up-with-hamburg-sv/