date: 
2018-07-18 22:05:53-04:00

summary: 
 "Right now ethereum has an enormous amount of developer activity," Allaire said. Ethereum is the name of the platform that created the digital token ether. As a result, Allaire concluded, ICOs, or initial coin offerings - a crowdfunding way to raise funds for cryptocurrency ventures - have dramatically increased.

full text: 
7:12  PM ET Wed, 18 July 2018 |  04:55
Blockchain and cryptocurrency may one day be "as broadly adopted as the internet is today," Jeremy Allaire , CEO and co-founder of fintech company Circle, told CNBC.
"It’s a really fertile space in terms of the fundamental, technical and infrastructure," Allaire said on " Fast Money " Wednesday.
One major driver for this possible occurrence: ethereum. "Right now ethereum has an enormous amount of developer activity," Allaire said.
"One of the things that really catalyzed the [cryptocurrency] market last year was actually that ethereum, in particular, kind of got to a place where you could build apps on top of it," he said. "You could issue new tokens on top of it; you could create new kinds of financial contracts, using the smart contracts technology."
Ethereum is the name of the platform that created the digital token ether. The company created a platform for applications built on blockchain, the same technology that underpins bitcoin . Ether was first launched as a fundraising effort to develop the platform.
As a result, Allaire concluded, ICOs, or initial coin offerings — a crowdfunding way to raise funds for cryptocurrency ventures — have dramatically increased. For all of 2017, ICOs raised $3.8 billion. But in only six months this year, companies have raised more than three times that amount , or $12.4 billion in ICOs, according to CoinSchedule.
"It also catalyzed a lot of competing infrastructures to ethereum," Allaire said, pointing out that there are a lot of new blockchain platforms on the market right now. Some to consider are EOS, NEO and Cardano, he said.
Jaap Arriens | NurPhoto via Getty Images
Ether, the digital token of the Ethereum blockchain, is the second-largest cryptocurrency in the world by market value.
Meanwhile, crypto traders rejoiced this week as bitcoin, the largest digital coin by market cap, moved above $7,000 Tuesday , after falling below $6,000 last month . While the increase is significant, it's still far below the December 2017 highs of around $19,500. But bitcoin bulls say the coin is not dead yet .
"When the chair of the Fed says negative thing about bitcoin , and Howard Marks says negative things about bitcoin , and Ken Griffin says negative things about bitcoin , and bitcoin doesn’t move, I think that’s a really bullish sign," Barry Silbert , founder and CEO of financial firm Digital Currency Group, said on "Fast Money" Wednesday.
On Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. ET, bitcoin was priced just over $7,300, where it had held steady for more than 24 hours.
Silbert predicts 2019 will be a good year for both blockchain and cryptocurrencies, with increased accessibility and better understanding of products.
"I'm all about the infrastructure that's required to create the on-ramps and the off-ramps for Wall Street to get involved in this asset class," Silbert said.
— CNBC's Kate Rooney contributed to this report.
Kellie Ell News Associate for CNBC
Related Securities


url: 
https://www.cnbc.com/2018/07/18/ethereum-is-a-leading-driver-in-blockchain-says-circle-ceo.html