title: 
Capital Goods Giant CNH Industrial Partners With IBM on Long-Term Blockchain Upgrade

date: 
2018-07-27 16:08:00+01:00

summary: 
 One of the world's largest capital goods companies has agreed to a multiyear deal with IBM to implement blockchain technology, a press release confirmed July 26. While details of the implementation remain limited, CNH will leverage IBM Blockchain, a bespoke platform based on Hyperledger technology delivered through IBM Cloud, which has seen implementations across global industry this year. In January, IBM announced it would launch a dedicated blockchain-based supply chain company in conjunction with Danish logistics giant Maersk.

full text: 
Capital Goods Giant CNH Industrial Partners With IBM on Long-Term Blockchain Upgrade
Capital goods giant CNH Industrial will use IBM Blockchain products to update various internal processes.
4818 Total views
221 Total shares
News
One of the world’s largest capital goods companies has agreed to a multiyear deal with IBM to implement blockchain technology, a press release confirmed July 26.
UK-based CNH Industrial, which owns twelve international brands including Iveco and Case IH, will seek to enhance a range of internal processes as part of “reviewing and optimizing its global activities.”
“Areas that will be directly enhanced include Supply Chain and the inventory management of the Company’s Parts & Service business, which will deliver ever greater service to its customer base,” the release states.
While details of the implementation remain limited, CNH will leverage IBM Blockchain, a bespoke platform based on Hyperledger technology delivered through IBM Cloud, which has seen implementations across global industry this year.
“This agreement marks a shift in the business to extensive Cloud implementation that leverages upon IBM’s Cloud Private Platform, while continuing to operate with IBM’s data centers and CNH Industrial’s on-premises IT infrastructure,” the company added.
Supply chain enhancement is an area currently receiving particular attention from a range of players, blockchain reportedly having a key role to play in reducing costs and timings while enhancing security. In January, IBM announced it would launch a dedicated blockchain-based supply chain company in conjunction with Danish logistics giant Maersk.


url: 
https://cointelegraph.com/news/capital-goods-giant-cnh-industrial-partners-with-ibm-on-long-term-blockchain-upgrade