title: 
World Crypto Con Announces Inaugural University Blockchain Research Scholarship and Call for Applications – Irish Tech News

date: 
Exception in extractArticlePublishedDate for https://irishtechnews.ie/world-crypto-con-announces-inaugural-university-blockchain-research-scholarship-and-call-for-applications/

summary: 
,"sm_api_message":"THE PAGE COULD NOT BE FOUND"}

full text: 
Awards Blockchain Crypto Cutting Edge Investment World News
Winners to Present Their Blockchain Research at World’s Most Immersive and Interactive Crypto and Blockchain Conference Experience
  World Crypto Con  (WCC), the cryptocurrency and blockchain industry’s most immersive and interactive conference experience, today announces its inaugural University Research Showcase Scholarship and  call for applications . The scholarship will award six university teams with the opportunity to present their cutting-edge blockchain research and projects to World Crypto Con’s 5,000+ attendees.
Designed to provide future blockchain entrepreneurs with a global stage for their research, World Crypto Con’s university scholarship application is open to students who are currently enrolled in any university worldwide. Winners of the University Research Showcase Scholarship will receive free entry to World Crypto Con for up to four team members, an exhibit booth space, a designated panel to share their projects and publicity on WCC’s website leading up to the event.
“The future of blockchain holds unlimited opportunities and we’re excited to give university students a global stage to showcase their forward-thinking applications of this emerging technology and how it will change the world,” said Adam Williams, Co-founder of World Crypto Con. “The challenge for these scholarship applicants is to present innovative and actionable concepts for blockchain that, if selected, they will present on the largest stage in blockchain, to the most notable leaders and pioneers in the space.”
Submissions for the World Crypto Con University Research Showcase will be accepted until August 31. The top ten finalist teams will be announced on September 17 and a community voting round to select the winners will commence. The six winning entries will be revealed on October 1.
“World Crypto Con will provide attendees with unparalleled education and front-line discussions. We’re excited to see what today’s students think of this technology and what they will bring to this conversation to share with the world,” added Christopher Herghelegiu.
World Crypton Con will take place at the  Aria Hotel and Casino  in Las Vegas from October 31 to November 2. The winners will also have the opportunity to make connections with potential partners through the event’s series of networking sessions, educational programming and influencer meetups.
For details on how to apply to World Crypto Con’s University Research Showcase Scholarship, please visit  www.worldcryptocon.com/university-row .
About World Crypto Con
World Crypto Con is the first experiential conference for the cryptocurrency and blockchain space. It is the only place where attendees can explore and engage the future of blockchain and cryptocurrency technology now. The three-day conference will take place at the Aria Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, spanning over 200,000 square feet of meeting and exhibit space. World Crypto Con will draw more than 3,000 attendees, over 150 exhibitors, and 75 top influential speakers. For more information, please visit  www.worldcryptocon.com  or follow on Twitter: @WorldCryptoCon.
 


url: 
https://irishtechnews.ie/world-crypto-con-announces-inaugural-university-blockchain-research-scholarship-and-call-for-applications/