date: 
None

summary: 
 PRNewswire/ - GGRocket, an international venture-funded big data analytics and in-game trading company, is launching a high-tech AI solution on the blockchain for the gaming economy via an Initial Token Sale on 01 September 2018. "With GGRocket, the virtual gaming economy is about to be positively disrupted with AI, eradicating in-game fraud and boosting revenues of businesses," says Alexey Belyankin, CEO of GGRocket and LegionFarm.com. GGRocket is a blockchain-powered trustless virtual economy and AI driven big data analytics for the gaming industry.

full text: 
GGRocket Launches World's First Blockchain and AI Solution for the $50B Virtual Gaming Economy
News provided by
20:00 ET
Share this article
SINGAPORE, July 22, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- GGRocket, an international venture-funded big data analytics and in-game trading company, is launching a high-tech AI solution on the blockchain for the gaming economy via an Initial Token Sale on 01 September 2018.
GGRocket is supported by a development grant from Microsoft as well as several Venture Capitalists, having undergone the prestigious IIDF - Europe's Biggest Accelerator and VC. The company has a development and business team of more than 30 active personnel.
At the heart of GGRocket lie the principles of a decentralised network of clients and pro-gamers that can securely and trustlessly exchange in-game goods and services for real world assets. The entire virtual ecosystem will be built on top of the proprietary GG Chain, which in turn connects participants to smart contracts and decentralised applications. GGRocket Tokens (GGR) will be used as utility and fuel for the ecosystem, allowing buyers, sellers and participants to interact in a trustless environment.
GGRocket already services a sizeable customer base by partnering with LegionFarm.com, a multi-million dollar marketplace for in-game goods and services. The partnership has actively proven the concept in GGRocket's solutions to more than hundred thousand buyers and sellers.
"With GGRocket, the virtual gaming economy is about to be positively disrupted with AI, eradicating in-game fraud and boosting revenues of businesses," says Alexey Belyankin, CEO of GGRocket and LegionFarm.com. "Our blockchain technology will amplify the impact of the solution, allowing anyone, be it a business or a customer to be a participant in an active ecosystem."
About GGRocket
GGRocket is a blockchain-powered trustless virtual economy and AI driven big data analytics for the gaming industry. GGRocket provides for an escrow service for in-game trading and an analytical tool for platforms to increase their revenue using big data harvested from the ecosystem activity.
GGRocket application functionality is based on 2 main instruments: GG Guard – a video recognition escrow system that decides if the deal has been fulfilled in game. GG Robot - a mechanism that utilises big data and machine learning technology in order to create specified and personalised offers for each customer based on their preferences.
More information on the Initial Token Sale can be found at https://ggrocket.io/
Contact Details


url: 
https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ggrocket-launches-worlds-first-blockchain-and-ai-solution-for-the-50b-virtual-gaming-economy-300684161.html