title: 
 Anthony Scaramucci coming to Providence Thursday for blockchain tech event - News - providencejournal.com - Providence, RI

date: 
2018-07-25 22:02:05+00:00

summary: 
 PROVIDENCE, R.I. - A campaign to put Rhode Island at the center of the trending blockchain universe is bringing out the big guns on Thursday, including Gov. Gina Raimondo, House Speaker Nicholas Mattiello and former White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci. Organized by a Providence advertising agency and a New York blockchain investment company, the event is meant to sell companies working in blockchain technology on moving to Rhode Island. Raimondo is scheduled speak at the event and, according to an email notice from G Media, will be "Among other industry leaders... spearheading efforts to create and pass blockchain related legislation in Rhode Island."

full text: 
Anthony Scaramucci coming to Providence Thursday for blockchain tech event
 
Patrick  Anderson Journal Staff Writer   patrickanderso_
Wednesday
Jul 25, 2018 at 5:02 PM Jul 25, 2018 at 5:02 PM
Raimondo, Mattiello also to attend effort at Omni Hotel aimed at attracting cyptocurrency technology companies to Rhode Island
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — A campaign to put Rhode Island at the center of the trending blockchain universe is bringing out the big guns on Thursday, including Gov. Gina Raimondo, House Speaker Nicholas Mattiello and former White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci.
Organized by a Providence advertising agency and a New York blockchain investment company, the event is meant to sell companies working in blockchain technology on moving to Rhode Island.
"The top objective is to show these companies that Rhode Island is a perfect centralized hub for their industry," David Paolo, founder and CEO of G Media, which is organizing the event along with blockchain firm Alchemist, told The Journal Wednesday.
Known to many as the technology underpinning of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, blockchain refers to a decentralized, shared digital ledger of encrypted transactions. In the last decade, entrepreneurs have scrambled to make money from the technology, but so far, large real-world applications have proved fleeting.
Raimondo is scheduled speak at the event and, according to an email notice from G Media, will be "among other industry leaders... spearheading efforts to create and pass blockchain related legislation in Rhode Island."
No blockchain-related legislation was proposed in the Rhode Island General Assembly this year and Paolo said advocates of making Rhode Island more blockchain-industry friendly are still formulating their plans.
Former Rhode Island House speaker John Harwood is advising the group on a legal strategy, Paolo said.
Scaramucci spent a little more than a week in the national spotlight leading President Donald Trump's communications shop before he was fired in the wake of an expletive-filled interview with the New Yorker. He's since returned to SkyBridge Capital, the hedge fund he founded.
According to G Media, Scaramucci will be "attending to learn more about the industry from these global experts," and not speaking.
SkyBridge did not return inquiries to confirm Scaramucci was coming to Providence.
Asked about Raimondo's involvement, spokesman Mike Raia provided this emailed answer:
"The governor regularly delivers welcoming greetings at conferences that take place in Rhode Island. She has not weighed in on any legislation related to blockchain and she accepted this invitation to provide greetings before knowing that Mr. Scaramucci would be attending."
One blockchain advocate who won't be at the event, taking place at the Omni Providence, is Republican candidate for governor Giovanni Feroce, whose policy platform includes luring companies with industry-friendly legislation and putting many government functions on the blockchain.
"I am happy to see the Governor's office finally getting involved in the Blockchain discussion," Feroce wrote in an email. "I am not surprised I wasn't invited as she has sidelined me from the moment she took office from business discussions and the future of Rhode Island because I did not support her in the last election."
— panderson@providencejournal.com


url: 
http://www.providencejournal.com/news/20180725/anthony-scaramucci-coming-to-providence-thursday-for-blockchain-tech-event