title: 
Long Blockchain names new CEO, forms subsidiary

date: 
2018-07-27 10:09:38-05:00

summary: 
 Long Blockchain Corp., the Farmingdale company formerly known as Long Island Iced Tea Corp., announced Friday that it had named a new chairman and chief executive and formed a subsidiary focused on loyalty and gift-card programs for corporate brands. Shape is co-founder and President of STRAN & Co. Inc., a promotional marketing company based in Quincy, Massachusetts, that will "Partner" with the new Long Blockchain subsidiary. Malik, who stepped down "To focus on his other business affairs," according to the news release, had added the title of chairman of Long Blockchain in May. Shares of Long Blockchain fell 2.8 percent to 35 cents Friday afternoon.

full text: 
Business Technology
Long Blockchain names new CEO, forms subsidiary
The new chairman and CEO, Andy Shape, replaces Shamyl Malik, a financial services industry veteran who took over in February.
The stock of Long Island Iced Tea skyrocketed in December after the company adopted the Long Blockchain name       Photo Credit: Long Block Chain Corp.
By Ken Schachter kenneth.schachter@newsday.com
fbShare Tweet gShare Email
Long Blockchain Corp., the Farmingdale company formerly known as Long Island Iced Tea Corp., announced Friday that the company had named a new chief executive and formed a subsidiary focused on loyalty and gift-card programs for corporate brands.
The new chairman and CEO, Andy Shape, replaces Shamyl Malik, a financial services industry veteran who took over in February. Shape is co-founder and President of STRAN & Company, Inc., a promotional marketing company based in Quincy, Massachusetts.
The stock of Long Island Iced Tea skyrocketed in December after the company adopted the Long Blockchain name. The company abandoned a plan to buy sophisticated computer hardware to "mine" bitcoin, and has not announced products or services related to blockchain or cryptocurrency.
Shares of Long Blockchain closed Thursday at 36 cents and there was no reported trading in the stock as of 10 a.m.
Check back for updates to this developing story.
Get the Biz Briefing newsletter!
The latest LI business news in your inbox Monday through Friday.


url: 
https://www.newsday.com/business/technology/long-blockchain-long-island-iced-tea-cryptocurrency-shamyl-malik-1.20135507