title: 
Rhode Island courts tech businesses in emerging blockchain sector

date: 
None

summary: 
 By BILL RAPPLEYE, NBC 10 NEWS. Rhode Island courts tech businesses in emerging blockchain sector. The potential has attracted a whole class of investors, and Rhode Island officials attended the gathering, telling businesses they will be welcome in the state. "Bringing 50 companies in an emerging industry to Rhode Island so they can see what Rhode Island has to offer. And possibly land some of these companies and create jobs," said David Paolo of G-Media.

full text: 
Rhode Island courts tech businesses in emerging blockchain sector
by BILL RAPPLEYE, NBC 10 NEWS
Rhode Island courts tech businesses in emerging blockchain sector. (WJAR)
AA
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (WJAR)   — 
Nearly 60 companies assembled in Providence on Thursday to hear state officials tell them they are welcome in Rhode Island.  They all are involved in the emerging technology known as blockchain, which is a system for managing and transferring information, including financial transactions.
Blockchain is the underlying technology for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.   But experts say currency is just a small application of a technology that has much more potential.
"What we’re talking about is a technological platform that literally has the potential to revolutionize everything. The financial Implications of blockchain will be significantly larger, by an order of magnitude, than the introduction of the internet to business," said Jeff Pulver, one of the early innovators on the internet.
Blockchain is impervious to hacking and completely anonymous.   Eventually, an individual could keep all of his or her data in a blockchain, pay taxes, register a vehicle.  And businesses could track their supply chain, pay and accept payment instantaneously, and even get capital, all through a blockchain.
The potential has attracted a whole class of investors, and Rhode Island officials attended the gathering, telling businesses they will be welcome in the state.
"Everything that we can do, to invite and to promote this new technology, within reason, while protecting the consumer, we should do it," said state Commerce Secretary Stefan Pryor.
That’s what the organizer of the conference was hoping would be the reception.
"Bringing 50 companies in an emerging industry to Rhode Island so they can see what Rhode Island has to offer.  And possibly land some of these companies and create jobs," said David Paolo of G-Media. "Thousands of jobs."
Unmute


url: 
http://turnto10.com/politics/rhode-island-courts-tech-businesses-in-emerging-blockchain-sector