date: 
Exception in extractArticlePublishedDate for https://www.investors.com/news/blockchain-bitcoin-cryptocurrency-news-trends/

summary: 
 Bitcoin and blockchain technology have taken off as they gain more mainstream acceptance, from exchange operators like CME and CBOE to Wall Street investment banks and mobile payment company Square. Top banks like JPMorgan Chase are evaluating blockchain as a cheaper way to settle transactions. The rise of blockchain technology may also threaten the dominance of FANG stocks - Facebook, Amazon.com, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet.

full text: 
IBD STAFF
7/17/2018
Bitcoin and blockchain technology have taken off as they gain more mainstream acceptance, from exchange operators like CME ( CME ) and CBOE ( CBOE ) to Wall Street investment banks and mobile payment company Square ( SQ ). Other cryptocurrencies are also trying to become viable alternatives to traditional, government-issued money.
X
But prices have been volatile recently, and new currencies keep appearing, leaving individual investors wondering where they are headed next. Meanwhile, top banks like JPMorgan Chase ( JPM ) are evaluating blockchain as a cheaper way to settle transactions.
The rise of blockchain technology may also threaten the dominance of FANG stocks  — Facebook ( FB ), Amazon.com ( AMZN ), Netflix ( NFLX ) and Google parent Alphabet ( GOOGL ).
Oppenheimer analyst Tim Horan says, ""We believe that blockchain technology will be as important as the internet was to economic and social change in the past 25 years. With blockchain, the community of users owns and pays for the servers instead of having a centralized organization like the FANGs, driving better innovation." In response to this emerging revolution, Facebook launched its own blockchain division .
Bitcoin And Cryptocurrency News
Chipmaker TSMC Cuts Sales Outlook On Crypto, Smartphone Slowdown Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, the world's largest contract chipmaker, on Thursday lowered its full-year sales outlook on a slowdown in demand for cryptocurrency mining and smartphones. The company, known as TSMC, reported mixed... Read More
Crypto Fans Swamp SEC Email In Frenzy To Get Bitcoin ETF Listed The Securities and Exchange Commission is fielding a deluge of messages from cryptocurrency enthusiasts after an exchange sought approval to list a Bitcoin ETF. In the three weeks since the SEC asked... Read More
How Boeing Could Use Blockchain To Manage, Track Drones As regulators grow more concerned about integrating drones into air traffic control, Boeing thinks blockchain and artificial intelligence can offer a solution. At the Farnborough Airshow on Tuesday, Boeing announced that it's creating... Read More
Consumer, Tech Stocks Boost Nasdaq; Bitcoin Fund Challenges Key Level Netflix slumped after issuing smaller-than-expected net additions of subscribers, but its 6% decline got offset in the stock market today by strength in semiconductor equipment, fiber-optic telecom and consumer-oriented shares. At 3 p.m. ET,... Read More
Rising From The Crypto: Bitcoin Rebounds From 2018 Lows Bitcoin regained some of its crushing losses Monday, rebounding from 2018 lows and breaking a two-month downtrend. The cryptocurrency's price jumped by 12% from Friday, its biggest intraday rise since April. However,... Read More
Bitcoin Bloodbath Nears Dot-Com Levels As Many Virtual Coins Go to Zero Bitcoin's meteoric rise last year had many observers calling it one of the biggest speculative manias in history. The cryptocurrency's 2018 crash may help cement its place in the bubble record books.... Read More
Government Needs To Embrace Blockchain And AI America's nuclear weapons system ran on floppy disks until 2017. To this day, the Treasury Department stores taxpayer data on an old IBM mainframe that has less processing power than a smartphone. And... Read More


url: 
https://www.investors.com/news/blockchain-bitcoin-cryptocurrency-news-trends/